
Englisch & Killian:  auch 2° for flat areas,5 for schwachgeneigt,10 mäßig geneigt

Mashimbye:The catchment generally has undulating topography with gentle to moderate slopes. 
SRTM, ASTER GDEM, GEOEYE (based on 5m stereoimages);  ecognition
The GEOEYE DEM (created from GeoEye stereo-images) was the most effective in producing land component boundaries that coincide with morphological discontinuities. 
 
 adediran: isodata classifcation
 
Arrell.
 Classification was performed at resolutions of 50, 100, 200 and 400 m. The coarser DEM resolutions were obtained by resampling the original 50 m DEM using a mean resampling method. Tables show the cluster means of gradient (tangent) and curvatures for the different landforms
Interessant:Fig. 10. Resolution-based changes to ridge recognition.
4.3. Variation of morphometric class with resolution
Discussion.The examination of the defuzzified classifications identified resolution as a dominating factor in landform identification and classification. 

Macmillan et al2000:
slope fuzzy membership: the selected dispersion index of 2% meant that the cross-over point at which a cell was considered to have a 50% likelihood of being nearly level was a slope gradient of 3%
Curvature threshold: all cells with curvatures greater than 10 degrees per 100 m were considered to fully meet the criteria for classiÿcation as convex in either proÿle or plan 
BUT VERY LITTLE RELIEF IN STUDY AREA

Hughes et al: 
As the major aim of the DTM is to identify hillslope elements, we regard an interpolated grid resolution of 15 m as adequate to represent those structures. window of 9 × 9 cells, 
A hillslope position index (Schmidt and Hewitt, 2004) was used in combination with slope gradient and curvature to define land elements. The land elements used have been applied successfully to soil-landscape modelling of steeplands in the Canterbury foothills, New Zealand (Schmidt et al. 2005b) ; acuh keine threshold angabe

Schmidt and Hewitt:
 A DTM of 15-m grid size 
Model parameters: window size: 135 m, slope thresholds: 2–10°, curvature thresholds: 1/500–1/200 1/m.The final land element model is derived by combining the form classification with the higher scale terrain classification. 
For example, slope thresholds, subdividing backslope units from ridges and valleys, depend on the local characteristics of the landform, i.e. the gradient of the slopes and valleys. Global thresholds, as used in the presented technique, are regarded as producing poor results
he results show that it is possible to derive land elements for steepland areas based on geometry and landscape context using a relatively simple model. 

Barka et al: Of the alorithms analysed in the presented work, Barka et al investigated the best parameter combinations based on the kappa statistic comparing the landform classification with forest and soil type mapes for Wood's and the TPI-based classification algorithm.
Setting Wood: slope threshold 1°, curv tolerance 0.002 and window size 170m
Setting Dikau: The classification of landforms elements according to Dikau [5] was not able to identify bottoms of wider
valleys (wie bei uns )The best threshold value of curvature tolerance in testing regions and DEMs was 0.003
Setting TPI: r1 100m and r2 900m
Method of J. Wood is the most promising algorithm for classification of landforms for forestry and pedological
predictive mapping. It is highly configurable and this increases its applicability in different types of relief.

Bolongaro Crevenna:central mexico; Each calculated morphometric class was compared with the relief visualized on an altitudinal 3D-DEM. The best fit occurred with slope tolerance values of 6 degrees and convexity tolerance values of 1x10^-4. Compared the classes with manually delineated geomorphological map

Schaetzl: wird dcatena wo zietiert?

#DEFAULT SETTINGS
##SAGA:
fuzzy: slope: 5 - 15; curv: 0.000002 (500,000 m) to  0.00005 (20,000 m)
TPi-based: r1=100m, r2=1000m
CurvClass: curv: 0.0005 (2,000 m)
##GRASS
Wood: 0.0001 fpr curvature and 1 degree for slope

Ehsani und Quiel 2008:The 10 SOM classes are then characterized by morphometric postion and slope ranges slope threshold=1 and curvature threshold 0.0005 (through visual inspection) gut für die beschriebung von Wood!!! slope thresholds: gentle 5° moderate 5-8 steep 8-12 very steep >12; Most of the study area is characterized by mountain ranges stretching from southeast to northwest; SRTM

Dragut and Blaschke :Slope gradients less than 2° are defined as “flat areas”, while higher than 45° as “steep slopes”. These two values are the only “crisp” values in the classification system. Study area 1 comprises two communities from the Transylvanian Plain in central area of Romania (Fig. 4). The second study area is located within the German part of the Eastern Alps. Poor transferability is also generally stated for most pixelbased remote sensing classifications (Townshend et al.,2000).The ease of modifying protocols enables object-based algorithms to perform more accurately than other techniques when transferred from one geographical area to another. By using relative values, the same classification model is transferable between datasets from various geomorphologic regions.

ICH: Landform classifications should always be calibrated, as the aim may very well lead to different thresholds, and the perception of "flat" and "sloping" in an Alpine environment differs from that in a an environment dominated by gentle slopes and plains. Though a "comprehensive" landform classification may seem appealing, the authors are of the opinion that the systematics of landforms is not only a function of scale and the geomorphologic region, but also of the aim or scientific area of interest.

Herbst et al 2012:  Herbst et al 2012 present a geomorphographic terain classification for a decision-based model for the prediction of forest soil properties in Switzerland. This approch combines modeled and defined terrain attributes with expert knowledge and local mapping experience and the authors conclude that the resulting landforms are essential predictors with stronger relation to soil properties than automatically delineated landforms. However, the mid-slopes still pose a challenge with regards to modeling their influence on soil properties.

Hoersch et al 2002: analysed vegetation distribution in an arean with high topographic gradients ind the Walli\ Swiss Alps, applying Dikuas CC. KEINE ANGABE des curv-thresholds

Jasciewisz und Stepinksi: Poland with a 30 m DE;, and L=1500 fl=1

Kringer geomorphometry: use fuzzy memberhsip for slope between 0 and 5 for flat, 2, and 12 for moderate slope and 9 and 15 degrees for steep

Mokkaram 2015:  in their comparison of fuzzy landform classification and tpi - finde keine thresholds, is auch wirklich kein gutes paper

Pennock et al 1987; A gradient of 3 ° was used to distinguish between backslope and level elements. The choice of 3 ~ as a gradient threshold was based on several published studies. Hier wird noch mehr zitiert. The criteria fbr the profile
delineations are taken from Young (1972), who uses _+ 0.1 /m curvature to delineate moderately concave or convex slopes from those with slight curvatures. HOWEVER this was for a study area in hummocky terrain!

Matsuura and Aniya:  present a slope segmentation algorith based on surface discontinuities, with which they attempt to immitate manual terrain recognition by humans. Applied D8 algorithm to follow steepest ascent and descent from pixel. DEM = 15 m, amaongst other 5 highrelief study areas in Shikoku Mountains.  Validation was performed with stratified-random-sampling grid by manual interpretation of slope contours by experts. As error assessment they give users and producers aggreement as well as overall agreement.
 As a flatness threshold they applied 2 degrees due to DEM  irregularieties. This threshold was also chosen in step 3 for finding breaklines!?
WICHTIG: They also indicate that high standard deviations in their users and producers aggreement are based on different criteria for defining slope segments, especially the difference between lower, mid and upper slopes,   amonst the human interpreters!
ICH: If this difference in criteria for slope segmentation is already obvious when analyzing contours,it is no surprise that these difference might get greater when the interpreter is in the field where his view is furthermore impaired by trees?!


Discussion: Kurz zusammenfassen was versucht wurde, möcliche anwendund, sinn?
UNBEDINGT BODEN REINBRINGEN

, the models developed here are incapable of ....
Dann: welche issues und mögliche verbesserungen
aus Schmidt and Hewitt:
A series of issues have been identified that could be used to improve the methodology, including (a) spatially variable scale, (b) locally adaptive thresholds, (c) improved modelling of landscape position, (d) better rules describing neighborhood relationships and geomorphometric context, and (e) the form and connectivity constraints of land elements. These issues are discussed in the following paragraphs.

SLOPE: compared to values found in literature, the slope thresholds in our analysis are much higher.
compare to crisp thresholds, and for schmidt compare it with fuzzy memberships from literature

Accuracy: A series of issues that may have influenced the poor accuracy values have been identified: (ab ground data)
Aus Congalton 1991, hier kann ich mich an die Aufgliederung der probleme halten:
- many zeroes in a CM may indicate an insufficient sample.
- Kappa can be used to assess if one error matrix is significantly better than another (or better than randomness). BUT kappa assumes a multinomial sampling model (and only simple random sampoing satifies this assumption)
- ground data collection: Assuming that the reference data is true, errors are linked to the classification process, often mistakenly lowering the classifcation accuracy. Therefore careful consideration of the accuracy of the reference data is essential!
 -  classification scheme: should be mutually exclusive and totally exhaustive, however this may not be the case for topographic positions! Shoudl also be hierarchical so that generalisations can be performed. This was attempted, but showed less increase in accuracy than expected. however Colgaton says that such artificial delineations often pose a problem
 - Spatial autocorrelation: does not appear to be a problem in the study?
 - Sample size: sufficient samples are necessary to give a representation of the confusion betewen differen classes. In the end, practical reasons play the most important role in sample size... Congaltons rule of thumb: min. 50 samples for each land use category for not too large areas.
  - sampling scheme: simple random samplingtends to undersample small area classes despite them being as important as those spanning large areas. In stratified random sampling a min sample from each category is taken. Both have the problem of random locations. 
  @sampling scheme in SOUTH TYROL: reference data points were selected on practical criteria, especially the proximity to trails / forestry service roads. Is it representative of population. Should the observed sample matricies be converted to population matrices?
 
 
 MEINE IDEE: maybe if should again be noted that the ultimate aim is to find out what parameters or classifications best correspond and represent a soil surveyors mental landscape model and not only to model topographic position. So instead of using a well thought-through sampling scheme and then model, we can only use the available data and machine learning( or data mining) algorithms to detect the most applicable parameter settings based on this data. Consequently, a discussion of sampling scheme is helpful only with regard to the applicability of certain statistics. While it may be said that the BS position is oversampled with respect to other classes, Congalton advises increased sample sizes for classes with high variability.
